
This repository contains the "programming" and "tidyverse" sections originally from a larger workshop called "r-more". Here are some notes on the timing of sections in the original workshop:

This is intended as a single day workshop with 5.5 hours teaching.

Example start 10am, 15 minute morning tea, 1 hour lunch, 15 min afternoon tea, finish at 5pm.

Hours
0.5  introduction and setup
0.5  Rmarkdown
1.75 programming
1.75 tidyverse
1    shiny

However, this turns out to be pretty unreasonable with current material. Both teachers and students are exhausted by the end of the day.

More reasonable might be
0.5  introduction and setup
2.5  programming
2.5  tidyverse
and cover Rmarkdown and shiny in a separate "r-communicate" workshop.

There is scope to expand Rmarkdown to cover bookdown, which supports figure numbering and cross referencing, and to refine the shiny section. The tidyverse section is a little tedious when covering dplyr (and this now recapitulates some material taught in the introductory workshop), and the end example is complex and could have fewer ggplots (and so far has also always been rushed). More challenges in all sections would be a plus.

----

First run of r-progtidy, 2019-03-07.

We used 5.5 teaching hours total.

There was another class directly after the workshop, so we had to finish exactly on time. Probably a good habit to maintain. We ran out of time to collect one good thing/one bad thing responses.

The amount of material is good, with a good amount of time available for challenges. We had a little bit of a look at Richard's CellExperiment data, and using Rmarkdown with an external R file for R chunks (~1 hour, in two half hour sections). Alternatively, there was some more material on sourcing R files, writing packages.

A weakness with this material is that the datasets (Richard's cell data, Paul's RNA-seq data) are best presented by people thoroughly familiar with them, so it may be difficult to transfer to different instructors.

----

Zoom run of r-progtidy, 2021-06-22/23

We scheduled this to run 9:15am-1:15pm on two days. We allowed for a 5-10 minute break every hour. Instructors were present from 9am for any problems. 

This was good for the programming section on the first day, but a little long for the second day and we ended up finishing at 12:20pm on the second day.

Noting also 9:15am Melbourn time is quite early for Malaysia students.

Next time, run 10am-1:30pm. (Instructors present from 9:45am.)

---- ...but instead of that, I added a "Communication" section... ----


Zoom run of r-progtidy, with added Communication section, 2022-08-30/31

We scheduled 10:10am-2:15pm on two days. Instructors were present from 10am to help with any problems, however no problems reported. Two 10 minute breaks per day seemed about right.

First day we did programming section, ran a little under time. There is always some variation, I'm not too worried about this.

Second day we did communication and tidyverse sections, finished nicely on time.

